Chinese [writing] .
DeFrancis, J. (1989)
From John DeFrancis: Visible Speech: The Diverse Oneness of Writing Systems by

* Sumerian writing, whose history can be traced to its very beginning, the
  * hE origins of Chinese writing are obscure and much debated
  * The earliest form known to us dates from the Shang dynasty (1200-1045 bc).
    * By that time the script was already a highly developed system based on
    * principles continued to characterize the system to the present

* How did the idea of writing come into the minds of the Chinese? There are
  * two opposing views of the matter based on different explanations for the
    emergence of civilized societies and the existence of specific elements of
    culture, including writing
  * One/other approach stresses "independent invention,"/"stimulus diffusion"

* Chinese scholars tend to espouse the first approach. In support of this view
  * push Chinese writing back before Sumerian by claiming a
  * connection between some symbols of Shang date and those inscribed on
    pottery several millennia earlier (Chang 1983; Cheung 1983). However,
  * as noted in the previous criticism of scholars who see a connection between
    Easter Island symbols and those of the Indus Valley, it is methodologically
    unacceptable to advance as evidence miscellaneous instances of similarity
    * limited number of scratchings that can be made using only two or three
      lines. There is involved here is a sort of chauvinistic scholarship that

* "stimulus diffusion" approach sometimes use the same dubious methodology to
  * some of the symbols found in China have been copied from earlier ones found
    in the Near East
  * a broader and more general argument based on the amount and quality of
    correspondence between civilizations. They argue that while
  * some simple aspects of culture, such as stone knives and drawings of
    familiar things, may have been independently invented by various peoples,
  * hE more complicated ones like writing must have had a single origin. In
  * diffusionists cite evidence of borrowing of some other specific cultural
    items to prove the borrowing of the idea of writing. Thus the prominent
  * Near Eastern scholar Cyrus H. Gordon states that "China heard about casting
    bronze from the West; and what impelled China to invent her own system of
    writing was diffusion of the idea from the Near East" (Gordon 1971:16).

* the arguments for both approaches are seriously flawed and that at present
  * there is simply not enough evidence to provide convincing proof for either
  * the burden of proof rests with the diffusionists.  I therefore incline
  * human beings are sufficiently inventive to have
    come up with the same idea more than just once.

* while some of the principles underlying Chinese writing are in fact similar
  to those underlying Sumerian writing, not because that one was influenced by
  * distances in time and space, unlike the Sumerian-Egyptian and
    Phoenician-Greek situations (discussed in chapters 4 and 5, respectively),
  * It is underlying principles, not the superficial outward form of symbols,
    that should occupy most of our attention.

* analysis of the Chinese script we encounter quite a
  * different problem from that of Sumerian
  * Sumerian: the language represented by the writing was completely unknown
    * reconstructed from scratch, in part with the help of information provided
      by peoples such as the Babylonians and Assyrians, who took over both the
      language and the writing system, applied the latter to their own
    * bilingual texts of various kinds. In the case of the
  * Chinese, there is continuity between the earliest and present day
    * gaps can at least partially be filled in, .  And given the
    * considerable amount of archaeological work going on in China and the
    * finds have been made in recent years, there is hope of being able to fill
    * Chief gap: the one that must have contained an earlier stage of writing
      before the full-grown system emerged during the Shang dynasty.

* since when do we know about what is so far the earliest known Chinese writing
  * Toward the end of the 19th century peasants working their fields
    in the district of Anyang, located in the northern part of Honan province a
    bit north of the Yellow River, turned up
  * fragments of bone, some of which bore markings that Chinese scholars
    recognized as characters of an older form than any yet known. Owing to the
  * turmoil attending the collapse of the imperial regime in 1911, it was
  * after several decades, scientific excavations could be conducted in the
  * In the meantime large numbers of inscribed bone fragments found their way
    into the hands of scattered Chinese and foreign scholars
  * Scientific excavations began in 1928, were
    * interrupted by the Sino-Japanese war of 1937-1945, and were
    * resumed on a larger scale after the establishment of the People's RC 1949

* over 100,000 inscriptions, many of them of a fragmentary nature,
  * on pottery, stone, bronze, and, most important of all, bones and shells.
  * The earliest date from about 1200 bc This was during the hitherto somewhat
    shadowy Shang dynasty that was
  * overthrown in the middle of the eleventh century bc by conquerors who
    established the long-lived Zhou dynasty (1045-221 bc). The Zhou dynasty, in
    * flourishing literate culture of which Confucius is an outstanding

* The extension of our knowledge of Chinese civilizat back from Zhou to Shang
  owes much to the inscriptions found on bones and shells
  * Inscriptions on other materials tell us little, since
    they are in general restricted to a few characters
  * the second most important group, those on bronze vessels, consist in part
    of so-called "clan-name" inscriptions. These are
    * pictographs often encased in a sort of rectangular cartouche that is
      reminiscent of those found in Egyptian hieroglyphic inscriptions
      containing the names of royal personages
    * Some bronze vessels have slightly more extended inscriptions specifying
      who made the vessel and for whom it was made (Boltz 1986).

* inscriptions on bones and shells are much more informative. This is due only
  * somewhat greater length, for most of the texts are less than 15 characters
    in length, and very few exceed 50 characters (Micke11986:256).
  * The nature of the inscriptions and how they came to be written provide most
    of the information.
  * divination
  * priests were scribes and had the power to communicate with their ancestors
    and their gods
  * oracular advice on all sorts of matters, from the most serious affairs of
    state to lesser problems such as what to do about toothaches and how to
    interpret dreams
  * known as "oracle bone inscriptions" (OBI).
  * written on the large shoulder bones of cattle and the shells of turtles.
    * These were much prized. Some nondivination texts record the receipt of

* The bones and shells, especially the latter, were prepared by being smoothed
  * diviner asked a question, such as "Shall an army of five thousand men be
    raised?" or "Will it rain?" Then
  * heat was applied to the back of the bone or shell, causing cracks to appear
    * cracks were interpreted by the diviner, or perhaps even by the king
  * a record of the whole matter, including the follow-up on the final outcome,
    was incised, or sometimes written with a brush, on the bone or shell.

* characters were not yet standardized as to shape and size. It was only
  * later they came to occupy the uniform square space that has earned them the
    Chinese name of fāngkuàizì 'square block characters,' which one Western
    scholar has rendered as 'tetragraphs' (Mair 1988). Moreover, in the early
  * no fixed direction of writing: varied from left to right, right to left,
    top to bottom, and various mixtures of direction within the same
    inscription and even within the same sentence (Serruys 1974:16). When we
  * fragmentary nature of many of the bones and shells, it goes without saying

* A full inscription consists of four parts: 
  * a preface stating that on such-and-such a day a bone or shell was cracked
    and that So-and-so divined; 
  * a "charge" asking a question; 
  * the prognostication; and 
  * the verification, telling what actually happened
* Few inscriptions contain all four parts
  * dating of the inscriptions is also generally limited to the specification
    of a day within a chronological system containing a cycle of sixty days.
  * From this information, the naming of the diviner, and other clues, it is
    sometimes possible to achieve a more precise dating, as in the case of some
    solar-eclipse inscriptions during the reign of King Wu Ding (1200-1181 bc)
    (Keightley 1978:174).

* 1045 Zhou
  * Shang for a period of only about a century and a half, that is until the
  * Zhou continue the practice of inscribing on bronze
  * The earliest identifiable Zhou text is on a bronze vessel with an
    inscription stating that it was commissioned only eight days after the Zhou
    victory over the Shang
  * typical of a large number of vessels cast during the early Zhou period that
    contained texts
  * stating the date, discussing the meritorious deed which led to the casting
    of the vessel, noting the generosity of the ruler as represented by the
    gift of metal, and expressing the desire that future generations take note
    and use the vessel
  * Some of the inscriptions are quite long. One that can be precisely dated as
    incised in the reign of a Zhou king who ruled from 946 to 935 bc contains
    284 characters
  * practice continued until the early Han period (206 bc-9 ad)
    (Mickel 1986:295)

* overshadowed by Zhou texts written with a brush on bamboo, wood, and silk,
  and carved on stone and other hard substances. These materials were the
  * basis of the extensive literary remains that survive from before the
  * paper in the second century ad: a considerable increase in output,
  * block-printing about 600 ad and then, well before Gutenberg, of printing
    from movable type. This resulted in
  * a veritable explosion of publications
  * The total Chinese output prior to the nineteenth century may have exceeded
    that of the rest of the world combined.

* long period, huge area
  * a long period, more than three thousand years, and in a
  * huge area populated by people who commanded various forms of speech that
    have conventionally been grouped together as "Chinese." This term is an
  * at least eight present-day varieties of what are usually called "dialects"
    * mutually unintelligible, might better be considered parallel to the
      various languages that make up the Romance group of languages
* The main varieties are
  * Mandarin (750 million speakers)
  * Wu or Shanghainese (85 million speakers)
  * and Cantonese (So million speakers).
* "Mandarin" is itself an umbrella term for
  "Idealized Mandarin" (Putonghua 'Common Speech' or Guoyu 'National Language')
  * "Imperial Mandarin " (the largely uncodified language spoken by the
    scholar-official class in imperial China)
  * "Geographical Mandarin" (the invention of twentieth-century linguists,
    created in an effort to delineate the language of a particular area sharing
    certain common phonological traits)
  * "Local Mandarin" (every locale, because of its unique linguistic
    composition, treated as an independent speech community) (Sanders 1987).

* classical Chinese
  * In earlier times most literature was produced in a style loosely called
    "classical Chinese" that was written by people who spoke some form of
  * ancestral to the varieties of current "Chinese" noted above. Such
  * produced by many people who were not even native speakers of Chinese, but
  * had about the same status as Latin in the Romance situation. In modern
  * based more or less on speech, chiefly Mandarin but to some extent also
    other varieties, notably Shanghainese and Cantonese
    * these varieties of speech are mutually unintelligible,
      so are the varieties of written language based on them
  * It is a widespread myth that Chinese characters cut across boundaries of
    speech
  * like the universality for the Latin alphabet  
    * It is necessary to learn the concrete application of the symbols to each
      specific form of speech
  * the version of Mandarin that is officially called Putonghua or Common
    Speech is the standard language in China, the writing system based on it is
    also the written standard. But
  * it takes more effort for a Cantonese to learn to read and write in the
    national standard than it does for a Spaniard to learn to read and write
    French (DeFrancis 1984a).

* realities of speech and writing in China that are obscured by the
  * myth of the universality of Chinese characters and by the
  * ambiguity of the umbrella term "Chinese" should be kept in mind in
* evolution of Chinese writing. There has been continuity as well as change in
  * Characters have been created by speakers of many different varieties of
    Chinese and often reflect the peculiarities of their speech.
  * historical changes in word order, and the characters have been shuffled
    around to adapt to these changes
  * Characters have died out as the words that they represented have become
    obsolete
  * New characters and new combinations of characters have been created to
    express new words that have entered into the vocabulary. In common
  * pronunciation of the symbols has changed greatly over time, as is readily
    * dictionary of Early Zhou Chinese (Schuessler 1987).

* The forms or shapes of the characters have also undergone change. On the
  * stylized, abbreviated, distorted, and otherwise modified that it is often
  * Shang oracle bones, the Great Seal style of the Zhou dynasty, the
    Small Seal style of the short-lived Qin dynasty (221-206 bc)
  * and the Scribal and Regular styles of the Han dynasty (206 bc-220 ad)
    * the most commonly used script until the
  * official simplification of characters in the PRC in the 1950s. Figure 17
    compares the OBI and modern forms of a number of characters.  Root of some
    of the very few characters that are pictographic in origin.

* Figure 17. Chinese Writing: A 1% Pictographic Script
  * The evolution of fourteen Chinese characters representative of the mere one
    percent that go back to pictographs, chiefly those found on oracle bone
    inscriptions (OBI) of around 1200-1045 bc. All but two -- 12 and 14, the
    most complicated -- have been used as phonetic symbols in the formation of
    multielement characters. Adapted with permission from William G. Boltz,
    "Early Chinese Writing." World Archaeology 17 (3) (1986):427.

* Shang characters, of which
  some 1,000 out of a total of 4,500 have been identified to date, is
  * in many cases it is possible to trace the evolution of a character from its
    Shang to its contemporary form
  * There are many "descendantless" graphs. Some/others are
    * completely unrelated to any modern symbols
    * complex characters whose component elements have modern counterparts but
      are not now combined in the same way as in the Shang graphs.

* component elements in Chinese characters and how they are combined raises the
  * question of the principles behind the Chinese system of writing. To obtain
  * what the principles are and
  * how they were applied in different proportions over time.

* traditional practice to classify Chinese characters into several groups. The
  1. pictographs.  Many of the earliest characters, as represented on the OBIs,
  2. the "simple indicative principle" identifies a second group of characters
    * not exactly pictorially but in some other representational manner. For
    * eg "one," "two," and "three" are respectively represented by one, two,
    * The words for "above" and "below" are represented by a horizontal line
  3. the "compound indicative principle" involves a somewhat more elaborate
    * frequently illustrated by the combination of the characters for "sun" and
      "moon" to represent the word míng 'bright,' as follows:

      sun 	moon  bright 
      日 	  月 	  明

  4. the familiar rebus device which we first encountered in
    * Sumerian with the use of gi 'reed' borrowed to represent the homophonous
      word gi 'reimburse
    * Chinese example is the borrowing of a character representing xiàng
      'elephant' to represent the homophonous word xiàng 'image.'

  5. one which combines a rebus-like symbol with another symbol giving,
     generally, a semantic clue to the meaning
    * eg1 the addition (on the left) of the symbol for 'person' to that (on
       the right) for xiàng 'elephant' to produce an unambiguous character
       xiàng 'image': 亻 + 象 = 像
    * eg2 the previously cited character for mā 'mother' formed by combining
      the character for mǎ 'horse' (on the right) with another for 'female' (on
      the left): 女 + 馬 = 媽
    * I call this the SF principle, since it involves joining
      * a semantic element S-such as the symbols for 'person' and 'female' in
      * a phonetic element F-such as the symbols for xiàng 'elephant' and mǎ
    * I also designate as SF characters those, to be discussed below, that are
      formed by joining a phonetic element P to a semantic element S. We can
      think of both of these types as MS (meaning-plus-sound) characters.

* The proportions in which the foregoing principles have been applied varied
  * table (adapted from DeFrancis 1984a:84) summarizing
  * the structural classification of 977 Shang characters, 9,353 characters of
    a second-century dictionary by Xu Shen, and 48,641 characters of the great
    imperial Kang Xi dictionary of the eighteenth century:

|Principle	          |Shang Dynasty	|2nd century  |18th century |
|---------------------|---------------|-------------|-------------|
|Pictographic	        |226 (23%)	    |364 (4%)	    |             |
|Simple indicative	  |20 (2%)	      |125 (1%)     |± 1,500 (3%) |
|Compound indicative	|396 (41%)	    |1,167 (13%)  |             |
|Semantic-phonetic	  |334 (34%)	    |7,697 (82%)	|47,141 (97%) |
|Total	              |977	          |9,353        |48,641       |

* The traditional view summarized above has been challenged by Boodberg 1937+
  * two main points
    * failure of many people, sinologists included, to realize the importance
      of SP characters because of neglecting or minimizing the phonetic
      contribution of the p element and exaggerating the semantic contribution
      of the the S element
    * especially with those characters traditionally classified under the
      "compound indicative principle."
      * The majority of these characters are in reality SP characters. Indeed,
      * apart from "a few exceptional cases " there is simply no such thing as
      * reiterated by another scholar, William G. Boltz, who has also done
      * "Characters were not invented by just putting together two or more
        elements based on their semantic values alone. At least of one of the
        components must have had a phonetic function" (Boltz 1986:428).

* Boodberg's "few exceptional cases" include chiefly single characters of
  clearly pictographic origin. There are at most only a few hundred of these,
  * the number has not increased for some two millennia. These simple
  * examples appear in figure 17, comprise only about one percent of the total
    number of Chinese characters
  * majority examples in figure 18, are

  * phonetic element (ie, one of the 895 syllabic elements in the "Soothill
    Syllabary"), and an added
  * semantic element (ie, one of the 214 elements
    traditionally called radicals or keys).

* eg1 míng 'bright.' He rejects the traditional approach which begins with a
  * he starts by assuming definite spoken words related to the meaning
  * existence of an earlier form of the character for míng 'bright' (Morohashi
    1955-1960) that I present below in juxtaposition with the later version:
    ming 明

  * In both cases the element 'moon' on the right-hand side of the characters
    is a semantic determinative
  * The element on the left-hand side
    * of the first character is originally a picture of a window, with a
      pronunciation related to míng. In short, the present character
      representing míng 'bright' is simply a later variant with what is usually
      taken as a semantic "sun"-which has caused us to overlook an earlier
      version with a phonetic míng element that more closely relates the
      character to a spoken word (Boodberg 1937:344-345; 1940:270-274).

* eg2 Boodberg also cites the case of the following two characters: 目 見
  * the second jiàn 'see
  * the first
    * In modern transcription, the first character is mù eye,' .' But the first
    * was also used to write the related word 'see.' Hence
      * it represented two related meanings and had
      * two quite different pronunciations, which have
        become modern mù 'eye' and jiàn 'see.'
  * In order to distinguish the two meanings, the 'eye' character was
    supplemented with a phonetic determinative, the bottom part of the second
    character, whose earlier pronunciation nzien provided a better phonetic
    clue than the modern pronunciation rén (Boodberg 1937:343).

In presenting these and other cases Boodberg stresses an aspect of Chinese
writing that we have already encountered in Sumerian. That is the fact that
many sounds are represented by more than one symbol (recall the 23 for Sumerian
du and that the same symbol may represent several different words (recall the
different words represented by the pronunciations gub, gin, túm for the same
symbol with the basic meaning 'leg'). Chinese words are also often written with
different characters, and the same character may be read in several different
ways. It is a major challenge to modern scholarship to unravel the
interconnections that have grown up among Chinese characters in the several
millennia that they have been handled and mishandled by millions of scholars
with widely different backgrounds in the many varieties of spoken and written
Chinese.

Because of his emphasis on relating writing to speech, Boodberg presents a
clearer analysis of the evolution of Chinese writing than that suggested by the
conventional listing of its underlying principles. It is summarized in even
simpler terms by Boltz as a three-stage development: (1) a pictographic stage,
which in its pure form could write only the limited part of the language that
was clearly picturable; (2) a multivalent stage, which included the use of the
rebus principle whereby the same symbol might stand for unrelated homophonous
words, and the use of the same character to represent words semantically
related but with different pronunciations; and (3) a stage in which the
ambiguity that grew up with the multivalent use of characters was resolved by
resort to semantic and phonetic determinatives, as in the case of Near Eastern
writing (Boltz 1986). The following examples illustrate these stages: Stage
xiàng 'elephant' 	A xiàng 'image' 	mù 'eye' 	B jiàn 'see' Pictographic 	./象
(none) 	./目 	(none) Rebus 	象 	象 	目 	目 Determinative (A. Semantic) (B.
Phonetic) 	象 	像 	目 	見

Note that in column A a semantic determinative, a variant of the symbol for
'person,' is added to the phonetic base xiàng to distinguish the meaning
'image.' In column B a phonetic determinative, another variant of the symbol
for 'person,' is added to the semantic base mù 'eye' to distinguish the meaning
'see.' Both types are SP characters. Note also that the three stages should not
be viewed as chronologically distinct. They define the stage of an individual
character as determined by its function.

It is useful now to take a closer look at the preponderant category of
characters of the determinative stage. Particularly illuminating is a
comparison of Chinese and Sumerian in their approaches to an essentially
similar problem of coping with the ambiguity inherent in writing systems in
which one word might be written many different ways and one graph might be read
many different ways. We can schematize the Sumerian and Chinese approaches as
follows: Sumerian 	S 	P? 	P 	S?  Chinese 	  	SP? 	  	PS?

The Sumerian examples have already been discussed in the preceding section. It
was explained there that an ambiguous phonetic symbol (P?) is disambiguated by
adding a semantic determinative (S), and an ambiguous semantic symbol (S?) is
disambiguated by adding a phonetic determinative (P). Chinese does exactly the
same thing, but it developed a variation that has had a profound influence on
how the characters have been viewed. That variation is to weld the
determinative, whether semantic or phonetic, with the ambiguous element to form
a tightly knit symbol that is rigidly confined within its own square space of
exactly the same size as that for every other character, regardless of
simplicity or complexity.

With his usual perspicuity, Boodberg notes this important difference between
Chinese and Sumerian ( and Egyptian also) in the following passage:

Egyptian and cuneiform, where the use of semantic determinatives remained
optional and the determinatives themselves detachable from the graphs they
determined, moved on apace toward phonetization. In Chinese, the
determinatives, semantic or phonetic, were welded securely to their graphs so
as to form one single graphic body; diagrammatic structure became thus the
dominant type of character building. This may have been caused by a more
pronounced homophony of the Chinese vocabulary, but it must have also been
influenced by an aesthetic imperative in the Chinese which prompted them,
apparently quite early in the development of the script, to enforce the
principle of equidimensionalism. ... of the graphs [Boodberg 1957:115].

With respect to the two kinds of SP characters, namely those formed by adding
an S to a P or a P to an S, which kind is more important? On this there has
been considerable disagreement among specialists in Chinese. Earlier scholars,
and a few still today, consider that the complex characters of this category
were formed chiefly by adding a phonetic determinative to a semantic base. The
popular names given to the semantic element reflect this view. It is frequently
referred to as a "radical," sometimes as a "key," the latter being used
especially in connection with its function as the unit (comparable to our abc
... xyz) for filing characters in a dictionary. The semantic element is
considerably less often called a "signific" or "determinative."

Noel Barnard, who has done some of the most important research on this aspect
of Chinese, is firmly of the opinion that the phonetic element is the real core
of compound characters. For the most part semantic elements were added to
phonetic elements, not the other way around (Barnard 1978). This is the
prevailing view among most specialists today. I hold strongly to this opinion
also.

Leaving aside the matter of priority, it should be noted that the result of
adding an S to a P is essentially the same as that of adding a P to an S. That
is to say, PS = SP. The order in which the two elements merged is now largely
of only historical interest. And the location within a character (e.g., left
side versus right side) is also of secondary importance.

If almost all characters are of the SP variety, and if most of these were
formed by adding a semantic to a phonetic, then we need to take a closer look
at just how the combination was effected. Part of the task is easy. It has been
the tradition, as illustrated in the Kang Xi Dictionary, to identify exactly
214 key semantic elements. Until the PRC simplification of the 1950s, all
characters were analyzed, sometimes quite arbitrarily, as having one of these
214 keys, and they were listed in dictionaries under the appropriate key.
However, there is a good deal of artificiality and arbitrariness in all this,
as is indicated by the fact that the first Chinese dictionary, of the second
century bc, listed characters under 540 keys, while the most recent PRC
dictionaries have variously classified them under 186, 191, 225, 226, and 250
keys.

What of the phonetic elements? The Chinese have in general paid much less
attention to this aspect, though some philologists have compiled rhyming
dictionaries based on the sounds of the characters. Some scholars, including
some foreign pathbreakers like Bernhard Karlgren, have made good use of the
phonetic elements in reconstructing the pronunciation of earlier stages of
Chinese. A few have also attempted to use the phonetic elements in teaching.
Two well known examples of pedagogical use are works by Wieger (1965) and
Soothill (1942) that classify characters under 850-900 phonetics based on
Mandarin pronunciations.

An extremely useful, if somewhat flawed, study was published in 1814 by the
missionary-scholar Joshua Marshman, who analyzed the characters in the
eighteenth-century Kang Xi dictionary. He excluded from consideration more than
a third of the characters on various grounds, such as their being mere
stylistic variants or lacking explanations. This left him with about 25,000
characters that can more or less be viewed as the total unabridged lexicon of
Chinese over the past two millennia. Removing from each character what he
called its "Element," that is, the semantic element or key under which the
character was classified, he arrived at a figure of 3,867 residual components,
which he called "Primitives." He concluded that all characters, apart from the
few hundred consisting only of a single component, are formed by combining one
of the 214 elements with one of the 3,867 primitives. He referred to the
combinations thus formed as "Derivatives."

By his use of the term primitives we can conclude that Marshman correctly
assigned the primary role to this category of components that enter into the
composition of Chinese characters. At the same time, however, he was so firmly
convinced that the primitives "convey a general idea" that he failed to
appreciate the significance of the fact (which he himself pointed out) that,
for example, 11 of the 16 derivatives (actually there are more) formed with a
primitive lì had exactly the same pronunciation, and all but one had the same
initial. Despite his myopia regarding the precise function of the primitives,
which was of course chiefly phonetic, his work remains valuable, for it shows
that Chinese characters are not all idiosyncratic entities like, as is
frequently alleged, our numerals 1, 2, 3.

All Chinese characters, or at least all the characters one is likely to
encounter in reading a text written within the past two millennia or so, and
excluding a few of direct pictographic origin, are actually combinations of
some 200 semantics and 4,000 phonetics. These numbers are large, but they are
not open-ended, and above all they are finite enough to make the Chinese system
manageable. It works because the phonetic elements are syllabograms that
comprise a sort of syllabary .It is, to be sure, an outsized, haphazard,
inefficient, and only partially reliable syllabary. Nevertheless it works, as
is apparent from the examples given in figure 18.

Perhaps it will help to visualize the structure of Chinese characters if we
imagine a huge "Semantic-plus-Phonetic Matrix" composed by listing the 214
semantics on the left and the 3,867 phonetics across the top. Of course not all
semantics combine with all phonetics, so that of the over 800,000 cells
contained in our matrix, only some 25,000 would be occupied by the derivatives
that Marshman selected for study from the Kang Xi dictionary. We can also
imagine a smaller matrix based on Soothill's classification of 4,300 of the
more frequently used characters (approximately the number needed for full
literacy) under 895 phonetics, combined of course with the usual 214 semantics.
We extract from the imagined overarching matrix a few examples (from DeFrancis
1984a:106) of cells filled by derivatives that are actually formed by combining
one of the 3,867 phonetics with one of the 214 semantics. The numbering system
follows that of what might be called the "Soothill Syllabary" of 895 phonetics
that is contained within the "Marshman Syllabary" of 3,867 phonetics.

Semantic-plus-Phonetic Matrix Phonetic 264 	Phonetic 282 	Phonetic 391
Phonetic 597 semantic 	敖 	(áo) 	參 	(cān) 	堯 	(yāo) 	甫 	(fǔ) 9 	?
'person' 	傲 	(ào: 'proud') 	? 	(cān: 'good') 	僥 	(jiǎo: 'lucky') 	?
(fù: 'help') 64 	扌 	'hand' 	  	(ào: 'shake') 	摻 	(shán: 'sieze') 	撓
(nǎo: 'scratch') 	捕 	(bǔ: 'catch') 75 	木 	'wood' 	  	(āo: 'barge') 	槮
(shēn: 'beam') 	橈 	(náo: 'oar') 	  	(fú: 'trellis') 85 	? 	'water' 	滶
(ào: 'stream') 	滲 	(shèn: 'leak') 	澆 	(jiāo: 'sprinkle') 	浦 	(pǔ: 'creek')

As can be seen by reading across the rows, in many but not all cases the
semantic element on the left provides a sort of thesaurus-like clue to the
meaning of the items on the right. All those to the right of no. 85, for
example, have something to do with water. The phonetics noted at the top of the
chart appear to give some clues to the pronunciation of the characters of which
they form a part. Although the clues vary in the degree to which they suggest
the pronunciation of the full characters, overall they are far more specific
than the semantic clues.

Some phonetics are more productive of derivatives than others- from as few as
two or three to as many as almost two dozen. In figure 18 the lì phonetic
(no.511) and the zhōng phonetic (no.784) both occur as a component in 20
characters. Yāo (no.391) and mò (no.453) each has 22 derivatives. The phonetics
are more likely to be evident in less frequently used characters, as attested
by the fact that they enter into an average of 6.5 characters in the Kang Xi
list of 25,000 characters but only about 5.0 in the Soothill selection of
4,300. The lower ratio in the latter shows the effect of attrition in more
frequently used characters, where the original structure of the graphs has
often become so distorted as not to be readily recognizable.

Some semantics also occur more frequently than others in compound characters.
The "vegetation" semantic occurs in hundreds of characters. The "step forward "
semantic occurs in 17 derivatives, all but two or three of which are quite
rare.

The illustration in the matrix of the way semantics and phonetics combine to
form new characters in Chinese can be used to expand on the important
difference between Sumerian and Chinese mentioned earlier. If Chinese combined
the two elements along the same lines as Sumerian, the two characters for ào
'proud' and ào 'stream' might appear as on the left below instead of as they
actually do on the right: 亻敖 	  	傲 	ào 'proud' vs. 	  	 氵敖 	  	滶 	ào
'stream'

The detachability of the semantic elements for 'person' and 'water' in the
characters to the left would incline us to view these characters rather
differently from those on the right. We would surely pay as much if not more
attention to the phonetic elements like ào than to the determinatives and would
view them all as separate entities. In counting symbols we would therefore most
likely say that the virtually unabridged historical lexicon based on the Kang
Xi dictionary has 3867 + 214 = 4081 different symbols instead of the
astronomical 25,000 that we see in the more closely-knit derived characters.
Similarly, the abridged modern selection presented by Soothill might be said to
comprise 895 + 214 = 1109 different symbols instead of the 4,300 obtained by
combining semantics and phonetics.

Another point we have to consider is this: Just how useful are these semantic
and phonetic elements? The former, it is clear, can at best suggest only a
general semantic area. Thus we know that characters containing semantic no.85
most likely have something to do with water, and those containing semantic
no.140 with vegetation. In fact the so-called semantic in many characters does
not provide even this limited amount of information. They often offer no real
semantic information at all and merely serve to differentiate one character
from another, as do our spelling distinctions in hair and hare.

There is a wide range in the usefulness of the phonetic elements. We can
distinguish four degrees of correspondence between a phonetic and the
derivative of which it forms part:

1. In some cases the phonetic tells us with 100 percent accuracy the
   pronunciation, even as to tone, of the full character of which it forms
   part. So phonetic no.74, huáng (see figure 18), indicates exactly the
   pronunciation of the 14 derivatives of which it forms part. An example is
   one in which it combines with the semantic key no.142, 'insect,' to form the
   first part of the two-syllable word huángchóng 'locust': key 	phonetic
   derivative 虫 	皇 	蝗 insect 	huáng 	huáng

2. Some phonetics indicate the pronunciation of the derivative character except
   possibly for tone. Phonetic no.255, mǎ, is such a phonetic in 10
   derivatives. One example is the character for the word mā 'mother,' in
   which, as already noted, it represents the pronunciation with complete
   accuracy except for tone: key 	phonetic 	derivative 女 	馬 	媽 female 	mǎ
   mā

3. Some phonetics indicate only part of the sounds which comprise the syllable
   represented by the derivative. Usually it is the final, the major component
   of a syllable, that is represented. Thus phonetic no. 391, yāo, enters into
   22 derivatives variously read as yáo, yǎo, jiǎo, jiāo, qiāo, qiáo, xiǎo,
   xiāo, náo, nǎo, nào, ráo, rào, shāo. One example is the character for jiāo
   'to sprinkle' composed of this phonetic and the 'water' determinative as its
   key: key 	phonetic 	derivative 氵 	堯 	澆 water 	yāo 	jiāo

4. Some so-called phonetics provide no useful phonetic clue. This is sometimes
   due to the mistaken analysis and classification of characters by dictionary
   makers, including Soothill, but perhaps even more, as Ramsey reminds us
   (personal communication, 5/26/88), to the extensive phonological changes
   that have taken place during the long stretch of time over which the series
   was built. Sound changes of various kinds have obscured some of the
   homophony or near-homophony that once existed.

An example of a useless phonetic appears in the character xià 'below.' Its
actual etymology, as mentioned earlier, goes back to a simple indicative graph
consisting of a dot or dash below a horizontal line. The modern character is
mechanically analyzed by Soothill, whose popular and convenient work I largely
follow despite some points of disagreement, as a derivative made up by
combining key no.1 'one,' under which it is customarily classified, and
phonetic no.119 bǔ 'to divine': key 	phonetic 	derivative 一 	卜 	下 one 	bǔ
xià

Clearly bǔ is completely useless as a phonetic for xià.

A somewhat different group of characters in this category consists of those
which some specialists in Chinese, though not ordinary readers, might be able
to identify as having useful phonetics. A case in point is the last character,
guān 'gate,' which Soothill places under phonetic no.635 mén (see figure 18).
Specialists like Karlgren (1940: 187) may be able to correct Soothill's
misplacement of this character under the phonetic mén by noting that it is a
derivative made up by combining elements which include key no.169 'door' and a
rare phonetic (the bottom part of the character) which had the early
pronunciation kwan: key 	phonetic 	derivative Soothill 	  	門 	 門 	mén
關 Karlgren 	  	. 	 door 	kwan 	guān

The potential utility of phonetics in this last group of characters is not
reflected in figure 18, which is mainly limited to examples of the first three
groups of characters.

There is ample evidence that while what we might call the "spelling" of derived
characters indicated by the phonetic element is not a completely reliable guide
to pronunciation, any more than is the case with English spelling, nevertheless
it is by no means useless or unused. Readers of Chinese frequently guess at the
pronunciation of unknown characters by referring to the phonetic component.
Writers frequently make mistakes by writing wrong characters that have the same
or similar sounds as the intended graphs.

It is pertinent, therefore, to look a bit more closely at the issue of
phoneticity that was mentioned earlier in citing Y. R. Chao's estimate that
Chinese writing is 25 percent phonetic as against 75 percent for English.
Research done on this issue indicates that if one has memorized the
pronunciation of the 895 phonetic elements singled out by Soothill, it is
possible in 66 percent of the cases to guess the pronunciation of any given
character one is likely to encounter in reading a modern text.

If we apply only those phonetics like the aforementioned huáng, which reflect
pronunciation with complete accuracy, we have a 25 percent chance of guessing
the pronunciation of the characters in a given text. It is probably not
coincidental that this figure is identical with Chao's estimate. His definition
of phoneticity may well have been based only on such cases, where a phonetic
precisely matches the pronunciation of a character of which it forms part, even
including the tone.

But symbols which represent accurately the phonemes of a syllable other than
the tones are also generally useful. This is attested by the fact that much has
been published in a variety of Chinese scripts which do not indicate tones. One
such is the Latinxua or Latinization scheme in use before World War II
(DeFrancis 1950). Since the early 1950s newspapers, poetry, fiction, and works
on linguistics, history, and politics have been published in a Cyrillic
transcription of Dungan, a dialect of Northwestern Mandarin. This dialect is
spoken by some 36,000 people in Soviet Central Asia descended from Muslim
Chinese refugees who fled persecution at the hands of the Manchus in the
nineteenth century (Isayev 1977:186-187; Rimsky-Korsakoff 1967:356, 410-413;
Rimsky-Korsakoff Dyer 1987:235). If we add the 17 percent of phonetics of this
type, represented by the phonetic mǎ, phoneticity increases to 42 percent.

Even phonetic elements of the yāo type are useful since they give hints about
the pronunciation of part of a syllable, usually the final part, which is the
most distinctive part of the syllable. Hence they generally permit a good guess
at the pronunciation of a character in context. If we add the 24 percent of
phonetics of this type, phoneticity increases to the figure of 66 percent
mentioned above (DeFrancis 1984a:105-110). 7

The 66 percent figure represents a conservative estimate of the phoneticity of
Chinese characters. Scholars with specialized knowledge of Chinese historical
phonology can often derive additional phonetic information from the previously
mentioned fourth category, which I have dismissed as providing no useful
phonetic clues. This rejection is based on my estimate of utility for the
average, linguistically unsophisticated reader of Chinese texts. More
knowledgeable readers such as the specialized scholars Bernhard Karlgren and
William S.-Y. Wang are able to discern corespondence between phonetic elements
and full characters that is not apparent to ordinary readers. They arrive at a
somewhat different classification of characters, primarily those in my fourth
category. Those of the xià 'below' type they consider as not belonging to the
SP catergory at all. Some others, such as guān 'gate,' are reclassified into my
third category on the basis of a more refined phonological analysis that is
made possible by a more sophisticated understanding of the history of a
character and the sounds attached to it. The net result of all this is that
their estimate of phoneticity (as defined by my first three categories) rises
to as high as 90 percent (Karlgren 1923:4; Wang 1981:232).8

Apart from the multielement (SP) graphs which contain phonetics of the varying
degrees of utility described, there are also single-element graphs which
themselves comprise phonetics. (Some also function as keys. ) Here are a few
examples of characters we have already encountered: 馬 	mǎ 	'horse' 門 	mén
'door' 目 	mù 	'eye' 人 	rén 	'person' 象 	xiàng 	'elephant'

The overall distribution of the various kinds of characters can be roughly
summarized as follows: Kind of Character 	Example 	Percent A. 	single-element
characters 	馬 	mǎ 	'horse' 	1 B. 	multielement (SP) characters 	  	  	  	 
  1. 	completely useful phonetic (represents all the phonemes of the
      derivative) 	蝗 	huáng 	'locust' 	25
  2. 	generally useful phonetic (represents all the segmental phonemes, but
      perhaps not the tone) 	媽 	mā 	'mother' 	17
  3. 	contextually useful phonetic (represents most of segmental phonemes) 	澆
      jiāo 	'sprinkle' 	24
  4. 	useless phonetic (represents no significant phonemes) 	下 	xià 	'below'
      33 Total 	  	  	  	  	  	100

The utility of the first three categories of phonetic elements becomes even
more apparent if we look at the phonetics not merely in isolated graphs but
also in characters as we normally encounter them, which is, of course, in
context. Even the minimal environment provided by two-character expressions
illustrates this point, as in the following examples consisting of several
pairs of phonetics and their derivatives: phonetics 	derivatives 	meanings
分方 	fēnfāng 	芬芳 	fēnfāng 	fragrant 兔厲 	miǎnlì 	勉勵 	miǎnlì 	encourage
山夭 	shānyāo 	訕笑 	shānxiào 	ridicule 士原 	shìyuán 	志愿 	zhìyuàn
aspiration 亡生 	wángshēng 	忘性 	wàngxìng 	forgetfulness

The wider contexts in which these words are normally encountered will enable
readers to handle the disparity in pronunciation between phonetics and
derivatives, just as readers of this book will no doubt, either consciously or
unconsciously, correct the preceding misspelled word.

Chinese spelling as represented by its phonetic elements is erratic,
inefficient, and difficult to master. But the same has been said about English
spelling. Chinese writing deserves these opprobrious labels even more than does
English, but this should not obscure the fact that phoneticity, deficient
though it has become, far surpasses iconicity, which actually approaches zero.

Yet this fact is indeed commonly overlooked by people who mistakenly call
Chinese "pictographic" or "ideographic." These labels are popularly attached to
Chinese characters by Western writers. The Chinese themselves are also almost
universally convinced that theirs is a unique system that they call biǎoyì
'semantic' or 'ideographic' writing. The writing system does contain some
symbols that might, very loosely, be so labeled, but a few, or even a few
hundred, such symbols do not make a system of writing. In actual fact, there
never has been, and never can be, a full system of writing based on the
pictographic or ideographic principle.

What then of the frequent designation, especially in academic circles, of
Chinese as a logographic or morphemic system of writing? Other writing systems,
such as Sumerian, are also described by these terms, but Chinese is usually
taken as the example par excellence of this category of scripts. I think this
too is a serious error, and the error is compounded by sinologists because they
have been unduly influenced by the previously mentioned difference between
Chinese and Sumerian in the way they handle semantic and phonetic
determinatives. In contrast to Sumerian writing, in which the determinatives
are detachable from the graphs they determine, Chinese writing welds these
elements so tightly together that the characters, surrounded as they are by
white space in their little square cubicles, are usually viewed as unitary
symbols, or at least as the basic unit in the writing system.

The error here will become clearer if we invoke the concepts of grapheme and
frame (or lexeme) that were discussed in the section "The Forest of Family
Trees" in chapter 2. The grapheme, as we recall, is the indispensable
meaningless unit that corresponds to the smallest segment of speech represented
in the writing system. The frame is the dispensable meaningful unit that
corresponds to the smallest segment of writing conventionally receiving special
status, such as being surrounded by white space and listed in dictionaries.

In English, the grapheme is a letter or combination of letters corresponding to
one of the approximately forty smallest units of speech, the phonemes, that are
represented in the writing system. The frame is a word, the smallest unit of
writing that is conventionally surrounded by white space and listed in
dictionaries.

It is my contention that in Chinese the syllabic element P, such as that in the
overwhelmingly preponderant SP characters, must be viewed as the grapheme, the
indispensable phonetic unit without which the system would not work. Whole
characters are frames or lexemes, secondary units that in a reformed system of
writing could be dispensed with entirely, along with the semantic element S.
The Chinese frame is a derivative, as is true also of the English frame.
Chinese writing, consisting as it does of derived characters, can be called
logographic (or morphemic) only if English writing is also called logographic
because it too consists of derived frames, in this case called words. But by
this standard most, if not all, systems of writing must be called logographic,
which then becomes a vacuous term utterly lacking in any power to differentiate
systems of writing .

The Chinese system must be classified as a syllabic system of writing. More
specifically, it belongs to the subcategory that I have labeled
meaning-plus-sound syllabic systems or morphosyllabic systems.

I use the term morphosyllabic in two senses. The first applies to the Chinese
characters taken as individual units. Individual characters are morphosyllabic
in the sense that they represent at once a single syllable and a single
morpheme (except for the 11 percent or so of meaningless characters that
represent sound only). In this usage the term is intended to replace the more
widely used expressions logographic, word-syllabic, and morphemic, all of which
are applied to individual characters taken as a unit. The second sense of the
term refers to the structure of Chinese characters and is intended to draw
attention to the fact that, in most cases, a character is composed of two
elements, a phonetic grapheme which suggests the syllabic pronunciation of the
full character, and a semantic element which hints at its meaning.

The aspect of the Chinese system of writing covered by this second sense of the
term often receives little if any attention. This applies particularly to the
phonetic grapheme. Its neglect leads to widespread errors in viewing characters
as either (1) unitary symbols with no representation of sound, or (2) compound
symbols made up by combining semantic elements with no representation of sound,
or (3) compound symbols with phonetic elements of so little importance that
they can be disregarded.

Whereas English graphemes represent phonemes, Chinese graphemes represent
syllables, or better still, accepting Boodberg's felicitous label, "syllabic
phonemes" (Boodberg 1937:331). There are in current Chinese some 1,277 syllabic
phonemes counting tones, about 400 not counting tones. For purposes of
comparison, let us say that, in round figures, there are 40 phonemes in English
and 400 toneless and 1,300 tonal syllabic phonemes in Chinese.9

A sampling of the characters in a dictionary with about 4,800 entries indicates
that 44 percent represent free words, 45 percent are bound morphemes, like -er
in English teacher; and 11 percent are meaningless symbols that represent only
sounds, like the cor and al of English coral (DeFrancis 1984a:184-187). On the
basis of these figures Chinese characters are at best 44 percent logographic
and 89 percent morphemic. But the Chinese writing system is 100 percent
syllabic since all characters (except that for the suffix r) represent
syllables, either as single-element graphs which themselves comprise phonetics
or as multielement graphs which include phonetics of the varying degrees of
utility noted earlier. It is a mistake to take Chinese frames, or lexemes, as
the basis for defining a writing system, just as it would be a mistake to call
English logographic because its frames are words. Yet the superficial approach
of equating Chinese characters with the Chinese writing system is often
adopted. People fail to look below the surface of the characters to what makes
the characters work and allows new ones to be generated as needed.

It would be quite impossible to write Chinese exclusively with logographic or
morphemic frames not further divisible into components that minimally include a
phonetic grapheme. The number of words, in the order of hundred of thousands if
not more than a million, is much too large.

The number of morphemes is harder to estimate. If we accept the conventional
view that Chinese characters represent morphemes, which as noted above is
approximately 89 percent true, then there are at least 25,000 morphemes in the
Kang Xi dictionary. An incomplete study based on only 4,200 characters
estimates the number of morphemes at 5,000 in modern Mandarin. The author notes
that this figure includes only "frequently used morphemes" and should be
increased to 7,000 or 8,000, which even so excludes polysyllabic morphemes,
foreign loanwords, and personal and place names (Yin Bin-yong 1984 and personal
communication, 1/8/87). Regardless of the precise figure, it is obviously very
great, much too large for a purely morphemic script.

On the other hand, it would be a relatively simple matter to write Mandarin
Chinese with a standardized syllabary of only 1,277 signs, which could be
reduced to 398 if tones were separately indicated. Figure 19 presents such a
standardized syllabary based largely on the Soothill Syllabary (DeFrancis
1984a). The pronunciation of the characters is indicated by the Pinyin
transcription that was adopted in 1958 as the official way of transcribing the
characters.  . view larger image

Figure 19. Chinese Writing: A Simple Syllabary and Simpler Alphabet

A standardized syllabary of 398 signs which with four additional marks for
tones would enable Chinese to be written with full accuracy and relative ease
in a way comparable to the Japanese use of kana symbols. The Pinyin
transcription of the 398 basic syllabic signs combines an initial consonant
(shown in the left-hand column) with a final (shown in the top row) made up of
one or more vowels and an occasional ending in n or ng. Reprinted with
permission from John DeFrancis, The Chinese Language: Fact and Fantasy.
(Honolulu: University of Hawaii Press, 1984), p. 27.

But instead of a relatively small number of syllabic graphemes, Chinese has,
according to the Marshman study cited earlier, something like 4,000 such basic
signs. It is partially coincidental, but not completely unrelated, that the
figure approximates the picture of maximum syllabic complexity attributed to a
sixth-century dictionary which divides all the sounds of the language into
3,877 groups (Kennedy 1964:113-114). Actually this figure is suspect, and it is
unlikely that Chinese ever had this many syllables. Boodberg makes the
startling suggestion that the number of different syllables in the still
earlier phase of Chinese, which some scholars consider to have been
phonologically the most complex, was more limited than in modern Mandarin
(Boodberg 1937:360).

Regardless of the precise number of syllables in Chinese in the various periods
of its evolution, it is clear that there have always been many symbols for the
same sound. Chinese writing never underwent the reduction in number of symbols
that characterized the evolution of the cuneiform scripts. Indeed, the Chinese
seem to have almost a penchant for avoiding simplification and standardization.
This is seen also in the failure to make efficient use of a
syllable-telescoping technique that has some similarity with that devised by
the Sumerians.

The Chinese variation of this technique, which they call fǎnqiè
'reverse-cutting,' indicates the syllabic pronunciation of an unknown character
C through the intermediary of two presumably known characters A and B by
cutting off the final part of the syllable from A and removing the initial in
B. This is as if in English we indicated the spelling of cat by telescoping cup
and rat as follows: c(up r)at.

With a stock of only about 40 A's and about 200 B's this could have have been
made into a fairly simple standardized system capable of expressing all the
syllables. But the Chinese never standardized the system, and indeed selected
characters, some of them quite obscure, at random, as if we spelled cat
indiscriminantly as cup-rat, cowfat, coal-hat, cap-mat, and so on. This failure
resulted in the haphazard use of about 500 A's and 1,200 B's. And sometimes the
"reverse-cutting" was circular, with C being explained by reverse-cutting A and
B, and A by reverse-cutting C and B (Kennedy 1953:8, 146-147).

But the shortcomings of the Chinese "reverse-cutting" device, which not
surprisingly confused Gelb (Gelb 1963:87-88; DeFrancis 1950:40-47), are not
particularly relevant, since little use was made of it. Unlike the Sumerian
technique, which played an important role in that writing system, the Chinese
variation did not form part of the writing system itself but was confined to
lexicographic use. Modern dictionaries have now abandoned this inefficient way
of indicating the pronunciation of characters in favor of newer techniques
closer to the alphabetic principle.

Traditional Chinese writing never attained even the limited degree of
simplification that marked the evolution of cuneiform writing. Throughout its
history the actual sound-to-symbol relationship in Chinese has approximated on
the syllabic level the much-maligned situation in English on the phonemic
level. In contrast to the one-to-one relationship, where there is close
correspondence between sound and symbol, both writing systems are characterized
by a highly complex many-to-many relationship. Thus English spells the same
sound o in at least ten different ways: so, sow, sew, oh, owe, dough, doe,
beau, soak, soul. It uses the same letter o to represent at least 8 different
sounds in so, to, on, honey, horse, woman, borough (DeFrancis 1984a:112). The
situation is the same, on the syllabic level, in Chinese. Here some syllables
are represented by many different symbols, which may be either whole characters
or the phonetic components in more complex characters of the SP type. And some
symbols have several different pronunciations.

The poor fit between sound and symbol in both English and Chinese should not
obscure the key fact that both are based on phonetic principles, with the 40
phonemes of English being represented by various alphabetic spellings, and the
syllables of Mandarin Chinese being represented by various syllabic spellings.
The number of different spellings for the 40 English phonemes has been
variously estimated at 600 (Zachrisson 1931:4), 1,120-1,768 (Nyikos 1988; see
298 below), and 2,000 (Alisjahbana 1965:530; Daniels 1985:34). The ratio
between syllabic spellings and syllabic phonemes in Chinese is much smaller,
but the greater complexity of its graphic symbols makes for a system the
cumbersomeness of which considerably surpasses that of English and perhaps of
all other systems ever created.

It hasn't needed to be so. As noted earlier, it would be possible to write
Mandarin Chinese quite simply and accurately with only 1,300 different signs.
It would be possible to manage with only 400 symbols if tones are separately
indicated, or not indicated at all. But writing with a simple phonetic script,
whether syllabic or alphabetic, would be impossible without the adoption of a
further feature that has characterized Chinese written in an alphabetic script.
This is a literary style that is more closely based on actual speech.

Over the past hundred years there has been a long-running debate regarding the
Chinese literary style and the Chinese character system of writing. Proponents
of reform are urging a more colloquial style of writing and the extended use of
the simple romanization system called Pinyin, not as a replacement for the
characters, but as part of a policy of digraphia, that is, the use of two more
or less equal systems of writing, each to be used in the areas for which it is
best suited, such as Pinyin for computers, characters for historical research
(DeFrancis 1984a, 1984b). The promulgation in July 1988 of rules for Pinyin
orthography, that is, rules for such things as punctuation and use of blank
space, hyphens, and closed juncture between syllables, is expected by Chinese
reformers to help create digraphic literates who would extend the use of Pinyin
from a mere tool for annotating characters to an auxiliary system for writing
the language.

However, reformers seeking to speed China's modernization by modernizing the
writing system through a policy of digraphia have to contend not only with the
natural attachment of Chinese to their familiar script but also with
chauvinistic and mindless claims for its superiority. For years the official
People's Daily has promoted a cabal of conservative dabblers in the area of
writing, headed by a wealthy returned expatriate, as part of a campaign
attacking the reformers and extolling the traditional characters. The
intellectual level of the campaign is indicated by an item, carried in China
Daily (11/15/1984) under the headline "Characters 'easier than ABC to read',"
which retailed the preposterous claim of an establishment psycholinguist that
"children aged 2 to 4 can easily learn 3,000 characters." China's writing
reformers and forward-looking educators, in their uphill battle against such
drivel, are beleaguered in an atmosphere of intimidation and quackery
reminiscent of the intellectual climate in the Stalinist period that earned
Soviet linguistics and genetics, long dominated respectively by N. Y. Marr and
T. D. Lysenko, the contempt of scholars throughout the world. In contrast to
countries like Turkey (Heyd 1954; Bazin 1983), North Korea (Blank 1981), and
Viet Nam (DeFrancis 1977), where writing systems and writing styles were
reformed in a matter of a few years or a few decades, it appears that
controversy over basic problems of writing is likely to drag on indefinitely in
China.  Notes

It may be of interest to note briefly how phoneticity in Japanese and Korean
compares with that in Chinese. There will naturally be differences, because,
when the Japanese and Koreans borrowed Chinese characters, their pronunciations
of the characters resulted in the so-called Sino-Japanese and Sino-Korean
variations from the original. For example, two characters pronounced shāo and
shēng in Chinese both became shō in Sino-Japanese.

Horodeck (1987:23) summarizes the results of studies of the utility of the
phonetics in 1,240 different Sino-Japanese readings or pronunciations of
characters as follows: " Almost 58% of these readings can be predicted with
100% accuracy from the pronunciation of the phonetic contained in the kanji.
Another 27.7% can be predicted with 50% or more accuracy."

In the case of Korean, a study developed for pedagogical purposes by Alloco
(1972) found that about 400 phonetics predict with 100 percent accuracy the
pronunciation of half of a small dictionary's 2,200 characters. (This is almost
twice the number in general use today.)

The foregoing figures are, of course, not directly comparable with mine, since
the characters studied and the methodologies employed are not identical.
Nevertheless, they show incontestibly that the phonetics in the characters
borrowed by the Japanese and Koreans also have predictive value in their
writing systems.  The reader may wonder why I do not base my analysis on the
more scholarly work of Karlgren, such as his Grammata Serica (1940), a standard
tool for the study of Chinese characters. The Soothill material, less scholarly
though it is, is nevertheless arranged in a way that makes it relatively easy
to handle with the aim of arriving at statistical results such as those which I
have presented. To do the same with the Karlgren material would require far
more effort, perhaps by a crew of researchers operating with a good-sized
budget. I would heartily endorse an attempt to improve on my analysis along
these lines, especially since I am convinced that such an attempt would reveal
an even greater phonetic aspect in Chinese writing than I have been able to
document.  Textbooks of standard Chinese published in China, on which figure 19
is based, usually present 398 nontonal syllables. It may be of interest to note
how they are constructed. If we let capital V stand for a vowel nucleus and
small v for an on-glide or off-glide, the vowel content of the syllables can be
summarized as follows: V vV Vv vVv

The following table, in which bold-face V stands for any of these vowel types,
illustrates the kinds of Chinese syllables and notes the number in each
category and the percentage of syllables ending in vowels or in consonants: V
(e.g., a, ya≡ia, ao, yao≡iao) 	17 	} 	56 percent C 	V 	  	(e.g., la, lia,
lao, liao) 	207 V 	C 	(e.g., an, yan≡ian) 	15 	} 	44 percent C 	V 	C
(e.g., lan, lian) 	159

The proportion of syllables ending in consonants was probably considerably
greater in earlier stages of Chinese, when there was a richer inventory of
final consonants. The same is true today of Cantonese and other varieties of
speech subsumed under the umbrella term "Chinese." The number and complexity of
syllables in Chinese is now and has been in the past less than in English, but
greater than in Sumerian.

Copyright © 2010-2018 拼音/Pinyin.info | XHTML | CSS home readings	rules tools
systems Pinyin News blog links contact 拼音
